You've worked with many very high
performing founder CEOs. Zuck, Cheryl
Sandberg, Larry and Sergey Google, Brett
Taylor. Google when I was there felt
like two PhD students paradise. Facebook
felt like 19-year-old hacker's dorm
room. 80% of the culture of a company is
literally defined by the personality of
the founder. Our job as operators or as
leaders is to help articulate the
culture that they're creating.
>> When a lot of people think Molly Graham,
a lot of people think of giving away
your Legos. You have to grow as fast as
your company is growing if you really
want to take advantage. Both learning to
give away what you've gotten good at and
move on to the next shiny pile of Legos.
>> Sarah Caldwell, she told me that the
framework that helped her most in her
career is something that you call the J
curve versus stairs.
>> So Chimath when he pitched me on this
job actually drew me a picture on a
whiteboard. He said the way a lot of
people do careers is a set of stairs.
Just walk up the stairs and you'll get
promoted every 2 years. But that is
boring. The much more fun careers are
like jumping off cliffs. And you do
fall, but then you climb out way beyond
where the stairs could ever get you.
Today my guest is Molly Graham. Molly
was an early employee at Google, also at
Facebook, where she worked closely with
Zuck on building the Chan Zuckerberg
Initiative. She also worked with Brett
Taylor on scaling Quip, which he sold to
Salesforce. She's also worked with
hundreds of companies and founders,
helping them grow into the leaders that
they want to become. Today she leads
Glue Club which is a community for
leaders operating in changing growing
environments who want to develop
themselves as quickly as their
companies. Molly is maybe most known for
her advice to give away your Legos which
we chat about along with basically all
of her favorite frameworks and mindsets
and pieces of advice that she's
developed and collected over time for
leaders who are going through rapid
scale and growth and are just struggling
to keep up. I think of this episode as a
high- growth handbook for leaders who
are experiencing rapid scale. We cover
the J curves versus stairs approach to
career growth, the waterline model, and
why you want to snorkel before you
scuba, her six rules for creating goals
and building alignment, her rules of
thumb for dealing with rapid scale and
lots of change, the biggest lessons
she's learned from Zuck and Sergey and
Larry and Cheryl and Brett Taylor, and
so much more. Molly is incredible and
you will be a better leader after
listening to this episode. A huge thank
you to Eric Antinau, Ashley Murphy, and
Sarah Caldwell for suggesting topics and
questions for this conversation. If you
enjoy this podcast, don't forget to
subscribe and follow it in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube. It helps
tremendously. And if you become an
annual subscriber of my newsletter, you
get 19 incredible products for free for
an entire year, including Lovable,
Replet, Bold, Gamma, Nadan, Linear,
Devon, Post Hog, Superhum, Dcript,
Whisper Flow, Perplexity, Warp, Granola,
Magic Patterns, Raycast, Chappied,
Mobin, and Stripe Atlas. Head on over to
Lenny's.com and click product pass. With
that, I bring you Molly Graham after a
short word from our sponsors. Today's
episode is brought to you by DX, the
developer intelligence platform designed
by leading researchers. To thrive in the
AI era, organizations need to adapt
quickly. But many organization leaders
struggle to answer pressing questions
like which tools are working? How are
they being used? What's actually driving
value? DX provides the data and insights
that leaders need to navigate this
shift. With DX, companies like Dropbox,
Booking.com, Adion, and Intercom get a
deep understanding of how AI is
providing value to their developers and
what impact AI is having on engineering
productivity. To learn more, visit DX's
website at getdx.com/lenny.
That's getdx.com/lenny.
If you're a founder, the hardest part of
starting a company isn't having the
idea. It's scaling the business without
getting buried in back office work.
That's where B comes in. Brex is the
intelligent finance platform for
founders. With Brex, you get high limit
corporate cards, easy banking, high
yield treasury, plus a team of AI agents
that handle manual finance tasks for
you. They'll do all the stuff that you
don't want to do, like file your
expenses, scour transactions for waste,
and run reports, all according to your
rules. With Brex AI agents, you can move
faster while staying in full control.
One in three startups in the United
States already runs on Brex. You can too
at brex.com.
>> Molly, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks, Lenny. I'm excited to be here.
>> I feel like this conversation was an
inevitability. Feel like you're the kind
of guest where is like we will do this
someday. I'm such a fan of your stuff.
I've read all the stuff you've put out
there over the years. We're going to be
talking about the best frameworks and
mindsets that you've developed over the
years that have been really helpful to
you, to founders, to companies that
you've worked with to help them with
growth and scale and change and all the
stuff that comes with success. Uh, the
way I think about this, I want to make
this the greatest hits of Molly Graham.
Love it.
>> And so, I sourced what I think are the
greatest hits from a lot of colleagues
that you've worked with, a lot of people
you've worked with. We've chatted about
the stuff that you find other people
find most helpful. So, we're going to be
going through all that stuff, but let's
help people uh understand why they need
why they should listen to this advice.
What's kind of the backstory on these
frameworks, where do they come from?
Where did you develop them? Um, tell us
that story.
>> So, first of all, Amivora, who you have
had on your podcast, once said to me
that all advice is just someone telling
you what they did. And I always think
about that because I really think that
basically what I tell people is I've
made every single mistake in the book
and then I got to the end of the book
and I started inventing new mistakes. So
mostly what I feel is that I like
sharing my stories because I want to
help people. I want to help people not
make the same mistakes I did. Um and I
also want to help people make sense of
what they're experiencing. But I I
started in tech uh in 2007. I actually
started at Google the week the iPhone
launched. And a lot of my scaling battle
scars come from a couple of experiences.
They come from
um a year and a half at Google, which is
not very long. And Google was pretty big
when I was there. It was thousands of
employees. But my department, which was
the communications department, was 25
people when I joined. And it grew in 9
months to 125 people. And that was
really my first experience with just all
the sort of things that I still talk
about today in terms of what it feels
like to grow really really fast. Um and
you know sort of all the the tools that
I started developing from there. Um
after Google I left uh and followed
Cheryl Samberg and Elliot Shre to to
Facebook and I um spent 5 years at
Facebook and I joined Facebook in 2008
and it's important context because it
was 80 million users at the time. We
were smaller than MySpace. It was you
know 270 million in revenue, 500
employees. It did not feel inevitable.
Most people thought we were going to
sell it to Microsoft. When I told people
I was going there, they were like,
"Isn't that a place just like a site for
college kids?" Um, and so I was there
for 5 years and it was a crazy five
years. Um, when I left it was 5,500
employees, 5 billion in revenue, over a
billion users. Um, so you know, a huge
amount of what I experienced, what I
write about, what I talk about in Glue
Club, which is the community that I run
is, um, comes from, you know, sort of
that that rapid scale at Google and
Facebook. But I also I left Facebook in
u right after we went public, about six
months after we went public. And I I
only like doing jobs that I'm highly
unqualified for. I like being on
learning curves so steep that I'm scared
I'm going to fall off. And so I left and
I I wanted to learn what it took to
build something from nothing. And uh so
I joined this little startup uh founded
by Brett Taylor, a startup called Equip.
Um I joined a couple months before we
launched and ran everything that wasn't
product and engineering there for him.
And and that was such a valuable
experience to me because the experience
of building something from nothing is
actually quite different than the
experience of, you know, sort of like
holding on for dear life while things
are scaling so fast around you. And it
really taught me about all the tools and
skills you need to go from 0 to one and
then from one to two and how lonely it
can be to build something. Um and uh I
we eventually sold that company to
Salesforce. Um and then again only take
jobs I'm highly unqualified for. But the
last really chaotic scaling experience I
had was actually helping Mark Zuckerberg
and Priscilla Chan start their
philanthropy, the Chan Zuckerberg
Initiative. And I basically helped them
for the first two years of its existence
or its sort of like first full
existence. And it philanthropy sounds
calm, you know what I mean? We're like,
"Oh, you're giving money away. Must be
so peaceful over there." And CZI grew
from I think the week I joined it was 30
people and we like bought two companies
that week and I it grew to 250 people
that year and it was like using every
single tool in my toolkit that I had,
you know, taken from every other job
that I'd had. So, my advice and
frameworks, like I said, come from
having made a lot of mistakes. Um, but
I've also sort of made a personal study
over the last 18 years, believe it or
not. Um, essentially like what does it
take to thrive inside growing and
changing companies, not just hang on for
dear life. Um, you know, what does it
take to lead in the face of constant
change? And really like the other piece
that I find truly fascinating is what
genuinely makes the difference between
something that a a business that grows
but then plateaus versus these
generational businesses, the ones that
go on forever. Sort of the difference
between a Twitter or MySpace and a
Facebook. Um, billions in revenue versus
hundreds of billions in revenue. So what
I like to do is take my experience and
use it to help other leaders. I want to
give people tools that work and I also
want to be honest about how hard all of
this stuff really is.
>> Amazing. I say this a lot in this
podcast. I just love the ROI that
listeners of this podcast get. You spent
20 years toiling, struggling, working so
hard, learning so much, and you're just
here. Here's all the answers that I've
learned. And obviously, not all the
answers, but so many things that will
help people avoid the pain and suffering
that you've gone through.
>> That's the goal. Also, a couple quick
threads I want to follow here. One is
Ammy Vora, who you mentioned. She's now,
I think, head of product at Anthropic.
>> Yes.
>> Amazing. Former podcast guest, also
speaker at the Lenny Friends Summit last
uh two years ago. This other point you
just made about how you've always gone
to places that have been way beyond kind
of your uh I forget how you phrased it,
but just like uh beyond your recurring
capabilities almost and like were very
difficult. Uh I just had uh Matt
McInness on the podcast. He was CEO at
Ripling, now CP at Ripling, and he was
just uh I just recorded an episode with
him, and he had this really powerful
quote that if you're ever if you're ever
comfortable at work and feel like, "Oh,
I got this." You're making a huge
mistake. Something's going terribly
wrong.
>> Yeah.
>> That's not where you want to be.
>> Yeah. I always say, "I get bored really
easily, which is both a strength and
probably my greatest weakness." So, I
like being scared.
>> Okay. So, let's actually dive into uh
some of your uh greatest hits of
frameworks. And uh the greatest of all
greats. When a lot of people think Molly
Graham, a lot of people think of giving
away your Legos. Uh, some people haven't
heard of this, many people have. So,
let's cover this. What is what is this
advice of giving away your Legos?
>> So, this definitely started in my
experience at Google. Um, and then
Facebook was like a masterclass in
giving away the Legos. Um, but, uh, the
way I like to talk about it is basically
when I watch leaders and employees go
through rapid scale, I like to think of
like somebody putting down a giant pile
of Legos in front of like a bunch of
kindergarteners and then just being
like, build something. And that's sort
of what it feels like when you start.
It's like, whoa, there's so many Legos
and it's so fun. There's a lot of
opportunity. Um, but it's also kind of
scary and overwhelming and you're like,
there's so many Legos. What do I do?
Like, isn't there an instruction manual
hidden under this pile somewhere? And
but then you like start building and
you're like, "Oh, okay." Like, you know,
you build something and then you take it
apart and then you put it back together
and then eventually you sort of get
momentum and you're like, "Okay, it's
like I'm building a house. I got this.
It's a house. All right, great." And
then you're like, I'm good at I'm good
at building houses. Like, I was put on
earth to build houses. And almost like
assuredly inside of scaling companies,
as soon as you're like, I feel good at
this and I like am I should do this
forever. Somebody's going to show up and
be like be like, "Okay, it's not a
house. It's a neighborhood." Like, and
you need to like take this house that's
kind of halfbuilt and you're going to
pass it off to this other person that we
just hired and you are going to go
build, you know, dog parks and streets
and other things that are entirely
unhouselike. And what happens when
someone does that to you is you're like,
"Wait a minute. First of all, I've I'm
not done with this house, and I'm I'm
worried that this person's going to
screw it up. Um I'm also worried that
like building houses is actually the
most fun thing, and that I'm going to
give the Legos to that person, and
they're going to have all the fun work,
and I'm going to hate building dog parks
or um you know, that dog parks are
irrelevant eventually and it's going to
turn out we're in the house building
business. So, you're just like there's
this like incredible set of emotions
that come um territorial paired with
excitement, you know, fear paired with
um joy, but but eventually you pass the
house off and then you go work on
neighborhoods and you're sort of like,
okay, like dog parks, I'm good at dog
parks. I got this. And then um you know,
again, you get to the like I'm great. I
was put on earth to build neighborhoods.
And immediately someone shows up and
says it's not a neighborhood. it's a
country or a city or a world or and it
just goes on and on and on. And for me,
the learning this muscle of um both
learning to give away what you've gotten
good at um and move on to the next shiny
pile of Legos and learning that the
emotions associated with that are
inevitable, right? Like there's no I've
been doing this for 18, 20 years. Like I
still get attacked by these emotions all
the time. Um but that doesn't mean that
you shouldn't give them away and move on
to the next thing. That is both the um
torment of scaling companies which is
that the ground is moving under your
feet and as soon as you're comfortable
someone will make sure that you are
uncomfortable but it's also the
opportunity which is that you can go
from being someone that's good at
building houses to someone that knows
how to build entire worlds. Um and that
is where the Legos metaphor came from.
>> That is such a good metaphor. Like if
you've gone through this, you so
understand what this is like and what
and also just the Legos metaphor is so
good for the different things you build.
>> I have I have a very weird brain that
for some odd reason just always thinks
in metaphors. So it it showed up when I
was
>> at Facebook in particular, I would find
that like every so often I would have to
have what I called a Legos talk with
someone where I would just see them
start to ask these questions like why
why are we hiring that person or like
why what's that team even do? And I was
like, "Okay, we need to have the chat
about the Legos." Um, and then
eventually it turned into an article and
a whole a whole thing,
>> a whole thing. And just to be clear, the
advice is give away your Legos. This is
actually the path to a successful
career.
>> You know, I um have watched a lot of
people over many years um struggle with
uh feeling like they c, you know, they
should hang on to the thing that they've
been good at. And it almost always
because you know essentially the nature
of a scaling company is that the Lego
pile is just getting bigger and bigger
and bigger. However fast that graph is
going up and to the right. I always say
that's the graph of how fast your
business is growing. It's the graph of
how fast your company is expanding and
it's the graph of how fast your job is
getting bigger. That means that if you
actually just stay and build houses
eventually you're literally buried under
a pile of Legos. Do you know what I
mean? held on to something that's down
here. And the opportunity is actually to
stay on top of that pile and to learn to
just give away um your job every so
often at Facebook. I got to a place
where I was literally giving away my job
every 3 weeks. I was constantly rehiring
myself essentially. Um because um you
have to sort of grow as fast as your
company is growing if you really want to
take advantage of the opportunity that
comes with companies that are growing
and changing quickly. So, people are
hearing this, they're like, "Okay, like
my rational brain's like, I should give
away my Legos. It'll help me. It'll be
good for my career." In real life, it's
very uh hard to actually do to like give
away this empire that you've built, this
team that you've built, this project
that you're like, "Oh, this is going to
be my thing." I know you have a really
fun, useful tool to help people deal
with that kind of irrational part of
their brain. Talk about that.
>> So, like I said, my brain works in weird
metaphors. It's a weird brain. Um, I was
raised on the Muppets. And I like to
think that this one came from, I guess,
growing up watching weird animals. But
basically, at some point, I realized
that this emotional roller coaster that
comes with scaling, with growing, with
going through change, any kind of
change, um, people feel that, um, was
never going to go away. and that no
matter how good I got, sometimes I think
it gets worse the more senior you get
actually. Um cuz you sort of feel like
you're supposed to know what you're
doing and then you just get attacked by
this monster that's like who even gave
you this job in the first place? So
basically I externalized all these
emotions that come with change into this
little tiny monster. Um I named my
monster Bob. Your monster can be named
whatever you want him to be named or her
or them. And um Bob is, you know, Bob's
job, I like to think his job is
basically to make me the worst version
of myself. He he's the one that's like,
you know, oh, that person took all the
fun Legos and you should go push them
over and grab them back. Um Bob's job
is, you know, Bob's the one that wants
to send the rage emails at 9:00 p.m. and
um you know, burn the house down. Um and
the thing to learn about Bob is that,
like I said, Bob never goes away. Bob is
not Bob is someone that you have to
learn to deal with. But Bob's job is to
make you the worst version of yourself.
So your job is to let Bob do his thing
but not act on the emotions. Like
basically all these emotions are normal
and they are not useful. They are not
the compass that should be telling you
what to do. Um but the other rule I have
for managing Bob is you know a lot of
people are like oh you're feeling pissed
off or tired or whatever like go to bed
and wake up tomorrow morning and you'll
feel better. And the truth is that like
you know you like I want to send the
rage email at 9:00 p.m. like you still
want to send it at 8 a.m. And a lot of
these emotions just like do not go away
in 24 hours. Um so my rule of thumb from
Facebook was give it two weeks and you
know these the emotional the sort of Bob
is like these waves and they just roll
through. So, you know, you made a new
hire or somebody came in or you got
layered or whatever,
you'll have a set of reactions and those
reactions again, they're normal, but
they're not useful. They're not the ones
that you should listen to. They are Bob.
Um, and typically they go away in a
couple days. You get something new, you
know, some new wave. But anything that
lasts longer than two weeks is actually
something you should pay attention to.
It's something that you know if it if
it's been around for two weeks is
something you should go talk to someone
about whether it's a manager or a friend
or a coach or someone like that. That's
the real stuff. Everything else is just
Bob.
>> Is there a rule of thumb for when it
actually when you shouldn't give away
your Legos? When it's like, okay, maybe
you should fight back on this on this
layering or you know, whatever.
>> No rule of thumb. In general, I would
actually say embracing change is far
better than fighting it. And um
almost invariably
you cannot see what is around the
corner, you know. Um but it is almost
always
the thing to focus on. Like a lot of
times I think inside of change we get
focused on the past. And one of the most
valuable things you can do as a manager
and a leader is help people focus on the
future.
Um I think
I'm sure there are times when people
have done it and regretted it and it has
led them somewhere. You know I think
being layered for example you know is
one of the hardest uh things for people
inside these experiences where someone
brings in a manager above you. And I've
also seen so many stories of that ending
up being a great thing for someone even
though they couldn't see it at the time.
Um, so in general, I would just say
step into the future and let the past
go. Um, and see what you're going to
learn. And sometimes you'll learn that,
you know, it's time to leave or that
it's not this isn't the right pile of
Legos for you, but it'll end up taking
you somewhere that's worth exploring.
Um, holding on to things almost always
leads us to the worst version of
ourselves.
>> It's a very Buddhist uh way of thinking,
too. Just don't don't cling.
>> There you go.
>> Yeah. And I think another part of this
metaphor, I don't know if you think of
it this way, is the Legos aren't even
your Legos, right? They're like the
CEO's Legos, the shareholders Legos. So,
you think they're your Legos, but no,
you're not.
>> Well, it is. You know, I will say one of
the hard-earned things is
it can feel very like emotional and it
can feel very personal.
It can feel like your work I don't know
it can feel like your life is on the
line sometimes just your work life you
know oh gosh like every this matters so
much and one of the things that you
learn as you get more senior and just
have seen stuff is it's going to be okay
you know like a friend of mine says um
careers are long and nobody tells you
that but like they're long and this
moment feels so dire and it feels so
hard and it feels scary and it's going
to be Okay. Um, so
yeah, it's uh it is hard to know in the
moment and I think like the story is
going to be long and this is going to be
one chapter or maybe even a part of a
chapter, not a whole chapter. So,
embrace the length.
>> To build on that point, I've realized
this is my fourth career doing what I do
now, whatever the hell this is. I was a
engineer. Then I was a product. Then I
was a founder. Then I was a product
manager. And then what the hell I do
now, whatever this is, that's a whole
different path.
>> You don't have a name for it yet,
Lonnie.
>> I don't. I hate I hate all the terms
people use for this this world.
>> Somebody called me an influencer and I
almost rip their face off.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> Yeah, man. The most interesting
careers are winding and they have starts
and stops and failures and successes and
um control. Anybody that's, you know,
been through a lot of this stuff,
control is usually not the the name of
the game. It's usually just like let's
see what happens. You know, we're going
to try this and we're going to see what
happens next.
>> This is a great segue to another
framework that I've heard from uh folks
you've worked with that have been really
impactful on them. So, um, Sarah
Caldwell, who's a big deal at OpenAI,
she told me that the framework that
helped her most in her career is
something that you call the J curve
versus stairs career growth framework.
Talk about what that's about.
>> I actually gave a TED talk about this
one a couple of years ago because I am
so passionate about it. Um, but I'll
tell I that's like you can listen to the
like very packaged like 8 minute version
of this, but I will tell you the real
story because um it's very relevant to a
lot of folks that listen to your
podcast. So, I was at at Facebook for um
five years. Like I said, I spent two
years. The first two years I was in HR.
Um and I was doing sort of employment
branding and culture work and I was like
ready to stay there, you know. I think I
had in my head I was going to stay there
till we went public. Like that was my
plan just cuz I wanted to like help the
company through that moment again in my
head. So this guy that many people know
uh Chimath Polyatia came to me and
Chimath ran growth and mobile at the
time and he came to me and we had lunch
and he said in his very way like you're
useless what are you doing in HR um like
this is stupid like you should come work
for me and I and this anybody that knows
Chimoth is like yes that is actually
what he said he manages to like insult
you and compliment you in one one
sentence so
so he you know he gave me all these
options on his team. And then the last
one he said to me was like, I'm going to
go build a mobile phone. Do you want to
come do you want to come do that with
me? And I had like four simultaneous
reactions. The first was like, that is
incredibly stupid. Why are we doing
that? And then it was like, is that
actually a thing that we're doing? And
then it was like, whoa, I think that
sounds kind of fun. Um, and so I left
the conversation at Chimoth and I went
and asked my boss, Lori Guller, who's
the head of people at Facebook for a
very long time, like, is this actually
something we're doing? and she was like,
"I can't believe he offered you that,
whatever." And I and you know, I I
basically just like could not get it out
of my head. Um, but it was like didn't
make any sense a that Chimath had asked
me because I was an HR like what am I
doing? I know absolutely jack about
mobile. Um, and uh, but you know, I had
worked on a project with him and he I
guess thought I was smart. Um,
and I I talked to like Cheryl and she
was like, "Well, that project will be
dead in two months, but you can do it
because you'll still have a job here."
You know, a lot of my dad was like,
"What? don't do that, you know, and
anyway, a lot of very wise people being
like, don't do that. But, um, I kind of
couldn't get out of my head. And my
friend said to me, you know, you've
proven you're really good at this sort
of like companywide project management
and HR. Why don't you go show yourself
how actually good you are? Like, is this
transferable? So, I took the job and I
spent the next six months feeling like
an absolute idiot. Like, I basically
felt like a total jackass all the time.
And I was sitting in rooms with these
like brilliant people, you know, asking
the dumbest questions of my life. And at
the end of the six month, Chimoth, I
think, took a lot of pride in giving me
like the lowest performance rating I've
ever gotten in my life. Um, and you
know, it just felt like falling off a
cliff. Um and uh he you know then slowly
I remember I had been doing all these
trips to Taiwan because we were actually
working on hardware and I at some point
came back from Taiwan and I like drew on
a whiteboard for him the layout of a
mobile phone and trying to explain to
him kind of like why something he wanted
to do was not possible. And I so vividly
remember walking out of that meeting
being like oh like I actually know
things. And slowly then over the
following three years I became an expert
in mobile and I basically you know the
the phone itself was a giant failure
like massive costly failure for
Facebook. Um but it let me it was it was
not a failure for me. Um it was a huge
job that taught me that I was capable of
things that I never could have dreamed
of if I had stayed in HR. it um set me
up to be uh capable of taking on things
that I didn't know about. And so
Chimath, when he pitched me on this job,
actually drew me a picture on a
whiteboard. He said, you know, look, you
can stay there. The the way a lot of
people do careers is a set of stairs.
You can be boring to use Jamal and stay
on these stairs. Just walk up the stairs
and you'll get promoted every two years
and your title will change from manager
to senior manager to director to senior
director, whatever. And he was like,
"But that is boring." And he's like,
"The much more fun careers are like
jumping off cliffs basically that you
jump off this thing and you do fall, you
know, for a period of time. I always
like to say it's about 6 to9 months, but
then this thing happens where you climb
out." And, you know, the picture he drew
had this J curve sort of like basically
leading you to places that are way
beyond where the stairs could ever get
you. And to be totally honest, that has
been my experience. You know, that
taking risks, accepting the sort of like
terrible fall and that experience of of
falling um has been more than worth it.
And I, you know, part of the reason why
Sarah mentions it is that I do give this
sort of talk to people that are inside
of really fast growing companies because
it's such an important place to let go
of Legos and jump off cliffs because
there's so much opportunity. And it is a
place where if you prove to people that
you're actually good, if they believe
that you are the kind of person that
they can use to do lots of things, you
can get these opportunities that you are
just so deeply unqualified for, but they
can take you to places that you could
never have imagined. You can come out of
those companies with skills that you,
you know, no one would ever have
reasonably hired you to do.
I ended my time at Facebook in product.
Um, and you know, did business
development and hardware and a whole
bunch of stuff along the way. Um, and
again, nobody would have hired me to do
that at the beginning, but it's just cuz
I kept saying yes to things.
>> Molly, I got tingles listening to this
story.
>> Wow.
>> Does it sound familiar, Lenny?
>> It it does. And let I want to ask is,
you know, jumping off a cliff um
sometimes you fall and you fall and you
keep falling. Are there any kind of uh
traits of like okay this is one that
might be a J curve and worth the risk of
falling and this is when uh you should
probably just no let's not do this.
>> Yeah. So you know I just think there are
different kinds of fear and you know we
talk a lot about this in glue club
because one of the thing you know
there's there is like a financial fear
right like leaving a job and taking a
job that has financial risk associated
with it or leaving a job and taking time
off which is something I spend a lot of
time talking to people about. Um, you
got to do the math, you know, and you
got to sometimes there is a type of fear
that is telling you like this is not the
right time or I don't want to be
financially anxious for months and
months and months. I use finances
because it's the most concrete example
of like a type of fear that you should
actually listen to. And sometimes you
can do the math and you know, I always
counsel people through that. I'm like,
what is the number that you need to hit
so that you're not constantly terrified
financially? And that number is, you
know, wildly different for people based
on their background and their life. Um,
can you do that? You know, can you
consult? Can you whatever in order to to
take this leap? But a lot of times fear
is just you saying, "I'm scared I can't
do this. I'm scared I'm not capable of
it. I'm scared that I um yeah, I'm
scared I'll fail." And that's the kind
of fear that I think of as like a
flashing green light cuz I'm like that.
And I it sounds like Matt McInness said
this too where it's like that's the kind
of fear that's saying why don't you go
prove to yourself that you are actually
capable of this or if you fail like
you'll have learned something too. You
know what I mean? You'll have learned
like I took this job in product at
Facebook uh you know was my last chapter
there. And let me tell you things that
people should never hire me to
do. Like I am not a good product manager
but I would never I am a I've got a
great product mindset. I can sit, you
know, in a bunch of chairs and and and
hang with the product folks, but like
I'm not the person that cares about the
button. Do you know what I mean? And I
uh would never have learned that. I
wouldn't have known kind of who I was if
I hadn't taken that risk and, you know,
failed or or at least learned that it's
not something I wanted to do again. So,
there's many different lessons that come
from facing down those fears and and
jumping off the cliff, you know. Um, but
mostly what it is is knowing yourself
better and knowing where you go next
from there.
>> That is such helpful advice. I also love
how you frame this of prove it to
yourself that you can do this. It's not
I'm going to show them that I can do
this. Because the way you describe this,
usually it's an opportunity given to
you. Hey, can you do this thing? We want
you to lead this new thing. And the fear
is like I don't think I can do that. And
what you're saying here is prove it to
yourself that you can. Or I guess it's
also okay, maybe I can't and then I'll
learn that and then I'll know more about
myself.
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean, one of the
greatest gifts in a career is knowing
yourself, you know, and um that's a
that's a lifelong journey. Um because
who you are and what you want changes,
but that knowledge and that gift like
nothing accelerates your self-nowledge
faster than trying to do something that
you don't know how to do and that you're
scared of. There's this probably the
quote I use most on this podcast comes
up uh again in my mind as you talk about
this uh this line that the cave you fear
contains the treasure you seek.
>> Hell yes. Exactly. Well said.
>> There it is.
>> I haven't heard that one from you so
clearly. I need to listen.
>> Okay, that's great. I'm glad I don't
overuse it. It just feels like it comes
up again and again.
>> And I think your point about the runway
and the finances is such an important
one like because that's a very real
practical question. One thing I did when
I took time off, I took a year off after
I left my job. Uh what helped me was I
just created a runway goal for myself.
I'm just like, "Okay, here's what it's
going to cost me for 6 months or a year
to live without any income. Uh am I
comfortable just burning through these
tens of thousands of dollars to explore
and I see something new emerge and so
that you just have to feel good. Okay.
Yes, I'm going to burn all that money."
That's
>> exactly the exercise. You know, I you're
you're saying runway, I say burn rate.
So like we both were raised
>> uh inside of companies inside of tech
but um but I think it is do the math
right what can you afford what and it's
both what can you afford and still feel
safe because sometime I mean again I
think that that is different for
everyone but it is such an important set
of math to do because a a lot of times
that number is smaller than you think it
is like than your brain makes it out to
be if you have this sort of like
existential financial anxiety versus
like I always say like specific
financial anxiety is much more useful
than exist existential financial anxiety
and and you know you know some friends
are leaving jobs and I'll be like hey
you know your number is 5k or 10k a
month you have to believe that you can
get a consulting gig that will pay you
that do you believe that you know and
and it's like either yes or no and then
okay either we're doing it or we're not
you know
>> the other part of this J curve that I
think is really important to touch on is
this idea of for the first six or nine
months you're going to be at the bottom
of the J curve like falling still
falling
>> and some projects don't last that long
and then you're like okay total failure
I never emerged from this fall. So is
there any advice there of just like how
do you create that enough space to give
you a chance to start to unfall?
>> I mean
the the most valuable thing that happens
as you fall is learning. And even on the
other side of failure, you've learned a
ton. Like I always say, like the
most important thing to do in the
falling phase and the risk-taking land
is to learn to embrace being a
professional idiot. You know, basically
being the one that shows up at the
meeting and is like, what are we talking
about? Like what does that word mean?
Because for a bunch of reasons. Number
one, you can learn so much. And again,
even in the face of failure, no one can
take away your learning. Do you know
what I mean? But the other thing is that
like it turns out that a lot of the
questions in the world that you you're
sitting in the meeting and you're like
this is a dumb question. Like I'm
everyone's going to think I'm an idiot.
But then you get brave and you ask it
and it turns out it wasn't a dumb
question. Do you know what I mean? Like
turns out that everyone had that
question in their mind but no one was
brave enough to ask it. So from a skills
perspective again regardless of outcome
being the person that sort of uh takes
their learning in their own hands,
learning no matter what and learning to
sort of like ask those dumb questions.
It's a superpower. I always say that
like actually my superpower is being a
professional because I'm the one
that shows up in a room and is like do
we have goals? Like what what are we
doing? What why are we talking about
this? Why are we having this meeting?
And most of the time it's actually what
I was hired to do, which is bring
clarity.
>> It's so funny. I just recorded a podcast
episode with a PM named uh Zevy who
joined Wix. And he had this thought.
He's like a very young PM. I'm just
getting started. And he's like, "Okay, I
need to be a 10x PM cuz that's what they
expect of me. That's what everyone that
is really good. That's how I think of a
10x PM." And then he went into his first
meeting and he just failed. And he just
felt so bad. He's like, "I guess I'm not
that 10XPM. They're all going to see
that. they're all gonna they think I'm
terrible. And then he did another
presentation a little bit later and
people were so impressed with how he uh
learned and evolved and improved and he
realized that he needs to be not a 10x
PM but a 10x learner and that's what
people actually expect from someone
especially a junior person.
>> Yeah. Well, and I was having a
conversation last night with a friend of
mine who has a senior in high school and
I was like, what what is the plan? Like,
what are we telling this senior in high
school like to think about relative to
their career given everything that's
going on with AI? And we talked about it
a bunch, but what we both circled back
to was this idea of soft skills and that
that actually like the only thing you
can really anchor on right now is that,
you know, teaching kids grit, teaching
them hard work, teaching them learning,
right? like learning how to learn,
loving learning, being able to follow in
a world that's changing this fast. And
and I say this inside of companies too,
right? I always say like what you know
today is way less valuable than what you
can learn by tomorrow. If you're inside
of a company where the growth curve is
like this, what you know today is like
irrelevant. Somebody once told me they
re I'm sure this is faster now, but they
rewrote the entire codebase at Google
every eight years, which means that like
if you're not learning, if you're not
evolving, then you become irrelevant and
extinct. It's actually the whole sort of
like underlying point of the Legos stuff
is that like evolution is the way you
stay on top. And I think that's more
true today than it's ever been.
>> And luckily AI is really good at helping
us learn.
>> Totally.
>> So that's good. Thank you. AI. Um and
this this actually comes up a bunch in
the podcast. I ask a lot of AI forward
people what they're teaching their kids
and curiosity is one of the main things
people talk a lot about just like make
them help them develop curiosity about
the world and
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Okay, I feel like I could be
talking about this specific topic for a
whole podcast episode, but I want to
move on to a couple other frameworks
that you've developed. One is something
called the waterline model and another
former colleague of yours said this is
the most imp impactful thing that was
that they've learned from you on their
career. So talk about the waterline
model.
>> Okay. Yeah. Well, first of all, the
waterline model is not mine. It's
something it's from some business book
somewhere. But I actually learned it so
my first job out of college was leading
wilderness trips. I led um 75day
wilderness trips in Patagonia and Alaska
for a school called Nolles, the National
Outdoor Leadership School. And Nolles
basically teaches essentially leadership
and communication skills to students
mostly I was mostly leading like college
age kids um through wilderness
expeditions. So by having to lead a
group of your peers that you don't know.
Anyway, the waterline model is something
that we taught on nullles and it's a
really really helpful model for
understanding how to diagnose when
something is not working on a team and
so I teach it inside of glue club and um
I'll just quickly explain it. So
basically the way to think about the
waterline model is that a team is a boat
and it's a boat on an ocean trying to
get somewhere. Getting somewhere is
goals, right? what are we trying to
build or ship or um do? And essentially
that is going to be harder or easier
based on whatever the shape of the ocean
is, right? If it's really choppy, it's
harder. It's smooth and calm, it's going
to be easy to get to your goals. So the
the water line basically asks the
question like, what is going on under
the water? What is going on that's
making it harder or easier to get to
your goals? And there's essentially four
things underneath the water and they are
in a descending order. So the surface
level is what's called structural
things. And basically structural things
are like goal setting, vision, uh roles,
expectations, like kind of the
structures you put in place to make a
team and a company and a business make
sense. Um that touch every single member
of the team. Right below that is
something called dynamics which is
essentially like how the team works
together. Um it's culture, it's
decision- making, it's how we resolve
conflict, all the sort of like um
interwoven um pieces of how teams work
together. And then below that is
interpersonal. So basically
relationships between two people and all
the things that come with us being
humans. And then the bottom is
intrapersonal, meaning within one person
challenges and issues there. And the
interesting thing about this model is
that most people when we when
something's going wrong on a team, a lot
of times we always go to the bottom. We
go to the people. We're like, the people
aren't getting along, that person's
having a rough moment, we go to the
humans. But the rule with the waterline
model, which is very memorable
memorable, is you snorkel before you
scuba. So
80% of problems on teams actually happen
because of structural issues or dynamics
issues. So when there are problems on
your team, where you start is at the
top. You start structural issues. And
one of my biggest things that I say all
the time over and over again inside of
Blue Club is your only goal as a manager
if you do nothing else is clear roles
and clear expectations.
That's it. Because honestly, like I've
taken over a lot of teams in my life and
almost always I show up and it turns out
that no one knows what their job is and
no one knows what success looks like.
And if you can make those two things
clear, which again is at the snorkel
level, um it will fix, you know, a huge
percentage of other issues on a team.
But the main thing is like where you
start and just always sort of starting
at that structural level or the dynamics
level and not sort of immediately going
to the people and and all that because
yes, people cause all sorts of problems,
but a lot of times they the problems are
happening because they're existing
inside of a structure that's confusing.
>> Another very vivid metaphor and just I
love how it builds on it with this the
snorkeling. Uh, okay. So, just to be
super clear about this, the takeaway
here is you have a problem with your
team, with the company. Many people
think it's they jump to like the people
are the problem. They're not good
enough. They're not working hard enough.
Really, what you're saying is most often
the issue is not the person, it's the
situation, whether it's the structure of
how they're set up to work or the
dynamics amongst the people. And
specifically what you're saying is that
like the role maybe isn't clear or what
success means and uh for that role is
not clear.
>> You know, every company I've worked with
or advise like I often start with like
what are the goals and usually what you
get back is uh not clear. Um and that in
and of itself is a structural issue,
right? How can someone show up and
decide what they're going to do with
their day all day if the goals aren't
clear? If they don't actually know what
the priorities are. And then it goes to
like okay role, right? Like do I know
what my job is? is do I know what number
I'm was hired to own and drive? Um, and
then like do I know what success looks
like? How does my role tie to that
overall goal that the company has? Just
literally right there you got like
probably 80% of problems inside of
companies because this is the hard work
of company building. Like it's the stuff
that's not intuitive. How do you
organize a group of people to know which
direction to row you know? Um, and that
equation again I would say 80% of
problems that I see performance issues
like I always start with does this
person actually know what you expect of
them? If not, go back to step one. Do
you know what I mean? Clarify
expectations. So the waterline model is
just helpful for reminding us like start
at the top. So what would you do there?
Say you're a manager, you're having an
issue with team member, would you go and
ask, hey, let's just make sure we're
aligned on goals and roles. Is that is
that how you approach it or is there a
different approach?
>> So, a lot of times what I do is
two-sided, right? So, it's like, hey,
tell me here's what I'm seeing. Um, and
tell me what's going on for you. Like,
do you know do you know XYZ? Do you know
what tell me what you know when I when I
take over a team, when I'm doing my sort
of like listening tour, part of what I'm
asking is what do you think your job is?
What do you what number were you hired
to drive? Because what you'll find is
often like their picture is different
than your picture. you think you've been
clear. They somehow got, you know, you
described an elephant and they spat out
a tiger. Um, and that coming back to
like, okay, no, we're building an
elephant. You're in charge of the trunk.
Um, will, you know, in some percentage
of cases actually make a huge difference
to the person's work and time and
performance. And you know, in plenty of
cases it doesn't, but that's always
where I would start because it um so
often um is just like a more fundamental
problem that then would lead you to to
look at other things across the team. Um
but yeah, that's I I would say two-way
dialogue. Um but reclarifying roles and
expectations, redescribing the elephant
over and over and over again is one of
the hardest parts about being a leader
because you feel like a broken record,
right? You feel like an idiot. You're
like, I've said this 45 times. Turns out
no one heard you the first 43 and you
have to you have to redescribe it in
order for people to hear you and to re
understand their sort of role and what
they're doing.
>> I love how you uh reframe the way I
approached it by starting with here's
what I'm seeing. What are you seeing?
What do what do you think your role is?
The very like non-violent communication
oriented which is a clear pattern on
this podcast. Just the power of that
specific framework.
>> Yeah, totally. Well, like I said, work
is about humans and it's the art of sort
of like organizing humans to get
something done and build something
that's great greater than the sum of its
parts. And that is an art of sort of the
humanness in all of us. How do we get
people to hear us? How do we get people
aligned work for a lifetime?
This episode is brought to you by
GoFundMe giving funds, the zero fee
donor advised fund. Did you make a New
Year's resolution to give more? I want
to tell you about a new product that
GoFundMe has launched called Giving
Funds, which is a smarter and easier way
to give. GoFundMe giving funds is a DAP
or donor advised fund from the world's
number one giving platform trusted by
over 200 million people. It's basically
your own mini foundation without the
lawyers or admin costs. You contribute
money or stock, get the tax deduction
right away, and then decide later where
you want to donate. There are zero admin
or asset fees and while the money sits
there, you can invest and grow it
tax-free so that you can give more
later. GoFundMe is a fintech unicorn
working for good. Make a better world in
2026 and start your giving fund today at
gofundme.com/lenny.
They'll even cover your DAFF pay fees if
you transfer your existing DAFF over.
That's gofundme.com/lenny
to start your giving fund. Okay, so let
me actually follow this thread of the
importance of goals and just being clear
around this stuff. You have these uh six
rules for creating clear goals and
alignment on teams. Talk about these six
rules.
>> Yeah, totally. I feel like there should
be less than six, but it's where it's
where we're at. Um I would say at a high
level, two things before I get to the
six. One is that I definitely have a
bone to pick with OKRs. I feel like
it's, you know, it's obviously been a
really helpful framework for Google and
others. And a lot of times when I show
up inside a company or I'm talking to a
leader and I'm like, you know, what are
your goals? What I get back is this like
spreadsheet that has like a hundred
lines and is feels like it's written in
Greek. And like I when I look at it, I'm
like this this doesn't create clarity
for anyone. And it brings me back to
sort of like what what is the point of
goals? What why do we have them? And at
the end of the day, goals are a
communication tool. That's what they
are. They are a communication tool
designed to create clarity to help
people know I'm going to show up at my
desk. What should I work on? What's the
most important thing? And your 100line
spreadsheet doesn't help anybody. Um,
and the second thing I would just say is
like you really have to ask the
question, what is right for me at my
this company and this stage. What is
right for a seedstage company is not
what is right for, you know, a company
that's got an established business
business and a clear go to market
machine. So you know when I'm building
in seed stage I'm setting goals every
two months in a very iterative way. When
I have an established business I can
actually set annual goals but annual
goals for early stage companies is just
like a waste of time. So anyway um a lot
of my goal setting stuff actually comes
from Facebook which I think was very
very good at this. So the first rule is
that no company needs more than three
company goals. And the point of company
goals is to help people know what the
most important things are to success.
Um, so Facebook basically had three
goals for the entire time I was there.
It was five years and we did, you know,
six-month goal setting. I think we did
annual goal setting that ended up
getting reset every six months, but
whatever. So the three goals were this.
There was growth, which was measured as
monthly active users. That was the
externally reported number eventually.
Um, MAUS. The second goal was
engagement.
uh meaning how often do people come back
and use the site and the third was
revenue and we literally had three goals
for the five years that I was there. If
you can govern that business with three
goals, you can govern literally any
business with three goals. So no company
needs more than three goals. The second
thing is that one goal needs to win in a
fight. So if I'm sitting down and asking
how do I prioritize my time on a given
day, I need to know what is the most
important thing. You know, at Facebook,
we had growth, right? And there's a lot
of different ways you can add monthly
active users to a social media site,
including you can go buy a whole bunch
of bots in Indonesia, and that would add
to your MAU number, but it would not add
to your engagement number. And it was
very clear for the entire time that I
was there that engagement was the most
important thing, acquiring users that
were going to use the site all the time.
That's what drives revenue. It's also
what drove, you know, sort of the heart
of that site. Um, so if you had to
prioritize something, you prioritized
engagement. That goal won in the fight.
The third I'll say is I call it the
explain it to me like I'm five goal. But
like an intern that started on Monday
should be able to look at your goals and
understand them. And if they can't then
you are failing because they are not a
communication tool that's effective. You
have to be able to understand the goals.
You have to explain the acronyms. You
have to have numbers that make sense to
average people. Otherwise, again, it
fails as a communication tool.
The fourth one is actually I I stole a
phrase from Claire Hugh Johnson, who uh
you've had on your podcast, but wrote a
book called Scaling People. And in it,
she says this sentence that I love,
which is strategy, strategy should hurt.
And you know, I my my rule used to be
like set non- goals. Basically, make it
as clear what you're not going to do as
what you are going to do. But strategy
should hurt is a much better way to
explain it to people, which is if you're
not making trade-offs that are painful,
you are not actually helping people
prioritize their time. Because the
nature of work is that people will show
up every day and do something. And
either you are very clear with them
about what the priorities are or they're
going to prioritize for you because
they're going to choose what they work
on every day. And we see this so much
with founders where they can't cut
things off the list. they just have to
have the 10 goals. And I'm like, cool.
Six of these goals are not going to get
done. So, either you pick which four it
is or other people are going to pick for
you. So, strategy should hurt. If your
goal setting process is not painful,
then you're not prioritizing heavily
enough. Okay, ready? We're on number
five. Um, this is more of an
organizational point, but it's really
important for the waterline model, too,
which is that one goal has one owner.
You have a number. That number has a
name next to it. If you cannot do that
work, you haven't done the most
important work to actually make sure
that these goals get accomplished. Um,
and it's organizational work and it's
very painful. Um, cuz you know,
sometimes it feels like, oh, this person
could own it or this. Maybe I'll just
own it together. Two people owning a
goal is no one owning a goal. One person
owns the goal. Who is it? It's not you
as the CEO. It's someone that works for
you. Um, so, uh, one goal, one owner,
and then the last, which is the hardest,
is that goals by themselves are not
enough. I've spent a lot of time with
founders that are like, I did it. I set
the goals. Why is why why not working? I
don't understand. And I'm like, what did
you do after you set the goals? And
they're like, I don't know. I set the
goals. Goals, you know, James Clear, who
wrote Atomic Habits, has this really
lovely sentence, which is, uh, winners
and losers have the same goal. Goals by
themselves are not enough. You have to
have a process by which you follow up on
the goals and you hold people
accountable to the goals and you learn
from the goals because so much of goal
setting particularly, you know, if
you're earlier in building your company
is about learning from trying to do
something. You set a goal, can we do it?
How hard is it to move this number? You
know, that is the learn. You might be
wrong all the time, but you're learning
what it takes to move the number. Um so
the number the setting the goal by
itself not enough. Um you have to build
a process in the system to like actually
learn from the goal.
>> Wow. This list is there's so much power
in this list. It's such a long
>> No, I don't think it is because each of
these has so much depth and power to
them that saves you so much headache and
and just like wasted time and resources.
Just like the idea of one owner, one
goal. something I've personally
discovered to have such power because
and correct me if I'm missing something
here, but just
>> if you feel like someone else may be
doing the thing or feels like it's not
just fully responsibility, there's so
much less energy and and just like
mental I don't know, you just don't care
as much about hitting that goal if it's
if it's you. Yeah. If it's like Lenny,
this goal is your goal and if you hit
it, it's you've done it. If you don't,
you're you've done a bad job. Like that
is such motivating. So motivating. If
it's like me and Molly, okay, well,
we'll figure it out.
>> It creates a flood of clarity that seeps
down from the person too. And and you
know, to go back to the waterline model,
I would say so often you'll actually
find companies that have set goals, but
they everyone no one owns the goals.
Everyone owns the goals. Multiple people
own the goal. And it's like that you
didn't actually get all the way to the
answer, you know. And I will say the the
ownership thing is hard. Like it can
feel painful. Um but it's really
important. you know, there's only one
owner. Um, and that means that um that
person come hell or high water owns that
number.
>> Yeah. The way we I described at Airbnb
was just like someone asks someone's ass
has to be on the line for this and and
that just works. That's such a powerful
lever to drive things to have one person
responsible.
>> Um, the other is just this idea of um of
strategy hurting. I love that. I love
that phrase. I forgot I forgot Claire
had that. Uh, so true. So good
>> because the whole idea is you need to
not do things. You need to decide what
you're not like the whole strategy is a
big part of it is what we are not doing.
>> Yeah. Absolutely. And if you're not
making painful choices then you're not
actually doing it.
>> And this idea of three goals. So is that
just like so do you go into a company
and just like go through a checklist
essentially of here's the six things I
look at to tell me if you what where
there's opportunity to improve.
>> When I work with founders and I see
their goals, what I do I use it as a way
to get to know the business and I'm just
going to be like literally like what is
this? like what are you trying to
explain? And it I can usually through,
you know, asking a lot of really dumb
questions, which like I said, one of my
superpowers. Um get them to explain to
me, you know, the one sentence and the
one number that they're actually trying
to get across. But it it takes work. And
that's part of, you know, it's almost
like easier to write the 100 line
spreadsheet than it is to say, wait,
what are the three drivers of this
business genuinely? Like what are they?
um and how do they relate to each other
and and you know there can be things
underneath them but there's three at the
top that matter um so yeah it's it's not
a I'm not like a scientific person about
it but a lot of it is just by asking
people to explain their businesses to me
you can basically find the drivers
>> and the story about Facebook having
these same three goals for 5 years
considering their success you may think
they're not as complicated as your
business but I am confident they are
just as if not more complicated. Their
marketplace, social network, their ad
business, just they're like there's a
lot going on. And if they can
>> work with three goals, you can do that,
too.
>> Yeah.
>> And to your point, it needs like if it's
not hurting, then uh you're doing
something wrong.
>> Yeah.
>> I love how this is very much what I
wanted this chat to be. It feels like
every little segment is like its own
could be its own podcast where we could
talk about this for hours. So, um so I'm
really excited how how this is going.
Um, kind of moving on to another topic,
you have not necessarily rules, but um,
rules of thumb that you find really
helpful for people to have in their head
as they're dealing with change and scale
and growth and all that kind of stuff.
So, let's just walk through that.
>> Yeah. So, for for leaders that are that
are leading through change and growth,
like I um
the list is probably long, but you know,
I always say to people, don't come to me
for like management 101. I'm not the
person to ask on like how to run the
most effective
one-on-one that with your people. What
what I think is not talked about enough
is what it takes to manage and lead
through change. Um and that is a very
particular set of feelings. Um, and the
first thing, you know, I learned when
someone makes you a manager or when you
take a job as a leader inside a company,
you really do feel like like, uhoh, like
who gave me this job? You know, and you
sort of feel like you're supposed to
know the answer to things. Like people
come to you and ask questions and you're
like, I'm spo I'm supposed to know,
right? I'm a leader. I am supposed to
have answers. And I think particularly
inside of rapid change and and scale and
growth, it's really important to
understand that your job as a manager
and a leader is not to have all the
answers.
It is not to have all the answers. It is
to get good at finding them. It is to
get good at bringing people together to
find the answers. And uh that is hard
because it requires saying, "I don't
know. Let's go figure it out a whole
bunch." And it's scary as a leader to
say, "I don't know." cuz you think, "Oh
gosh, people are going to see through
me." But, you know, again, the more you
travel in life, the more you realize
that the most experienced leaders are
the ones that say, "I don't know." all
the time. I think this is a good
reminder of this Bob the monster concept
because hearing this, okay, I don't need
to have all the answers as a leader. In
real life, being in a meeting, people
are like, "Hey, Molly, what do you think
of this?" Like, you're like, "Oh I
should have a good answer." And
>> and so I think that's a good reminder of
this idea of this Bob the monster is
going to tell you, "Oh, you don't know
anything. You're not ready for this. You
suck at this. You're going to fail.
everyone.
>> They're regretting hiring you.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Everyone's going to see through you.
Impostor, imposter, imposter. Yeah.
>> Just remembering there's this going to
be this part of your head and that's
okay. It's there, but it doesn't mean
>> Absolutely. And these things are
muscles, you know, like dealing with Bob
is a muscle, right? Learning to like not
react to all those things that attack
you. Um, but also learning like, oh, in
this moment when someone asks me a
question and I'm like, actually, I
should be like, I don't actually know.
Let's go. Who should we ask? Like, how
can we learn this? How can we explore
this together? What do you think? Like
those are all actually very powerful
questions and they're terrifying, you
know, to particularly earlier in your
career as a leader and a manager.
>> Awesome. So, yeah. So, the lesson there
is you no one expects you to have all
the answers as a leader.
>> No. And and it's particularly in this
world, right? The one that's changing as
fast as it is. Like nobody nobody knows,
you know, nobody knows what the answers
are. In a lot of cases, the the war will
be won by the people that are good
exploring and figuring it out. Um
>> I love that phrase.
So the second one is,
and everyone that has learned this has
learned it the hard way, do not promise
things that you can't control, right?
It's so tempting, like particularly when
you're hiring people to be like, "Oh
yeah, like your onboarding will be
smooth and calm and everything's clear
and like we figured it. Let us tell you
our vision and how obvious and clear and
smart and and then they show up and it's
like, oh shit." You know what I mean?
like they there's no manual, no one
knows what they're doing. It's all
ambiguity and chaos, right? It's so easy
when someone says, "I want to know that
I'm going to be your CMO forever." to be
like, "Sure, you can be my CMO." You
don't know that. Do you know what I
mean? So being really careful with
promises of things that are out of your
control like stability or titles or
never hiring over someone is like a
flashing red light cuz there is
literally no faster way to demoralize
high performers than going back on a
promise, right? Um you everyone that has
been through it knows that feeling of
like I they told me this when I joined
and then they don't do it and you're
like well this place, you know? So,
no faster way to demoralize people or to
hire the wrong people than promising
things that are actually out of your
control. Being honest and upfront about
who you are as a company, about what
you're able to promise, like all of that
is actually it's very hard work, but
it's so important because so much is out
of your control and you need to hire
people that are cool with that.
>> Love that. Such a I I I learned this the
hard way once. I had a one of my early
projects. I uh we were late and the had
a product was just so pissed. He's like
because I've been telling the CEO it's
gonna be on time because you've been
telling me it's going to be on time and
then it wasn't and why didn't you tell
me that? And he's and I was just like
okay it'll never happen again. And he's
like you can't don't tell me that cuz
that's not true. That may not you can't
guarantee that. And so that taught me
that lesson of just like yeah you're
right. Like you want to say that like
it's feels so good. Okay, this will
never happen again, but you just you
can't and they know they know you can't
promise things like that.
>> Yeah. And
uh sorry, I'm gonna quote Claire Hughes
Johnson again, but she has this really
fun phrase that she said in a talk at
Glue Club that I've now latched on to
and stolen from her, which is she was
like, "Promises like that are like
letter bombs that you mail yourself that
are going to explode in your face in
like a year." And I was like, that is
the perfect metaphor. It's cuz it's like
short-term pain, right? like you want to
make this person feel good right now, so
you like promise them something, but in
one year you're going to make them feel
terrible, so don't do it.
>> Great advice. All right, keep going.
>> Yeah. Um, so again, could probably go on
the like topic of what it takes to
manage and lead forever inside this
stuff, but I'll give you um two more
that I yell about a lot in Glue Club.
The first is that um we spend huge
amounts of time talking about hiring,
like how do you get good at hiring? Like
who like how do I what's the right
interview? How do I find the right
people? Firing people is as important as
hiring people. Getting good at
identifying when someone does not belong
or someone is not going to work out is
actually a skill. And being good at it
as a company and as a leader is as
important as identifying the right
talent. Because eventually, if you're
not good at firing people, what you have
is essentially barnacles on a ship.
Really going for it with the ship
metaphor anyway. But like
um you know it's drag um people that are
sitting around not sort of pushing the
team forward. So it's painful and it's
horrible because it is humans right but
but when someone doesn't fit you act no
one is right all the time when it comes
to hiring. I actually say most people
are wrong half the time. Like the best
people in the world at hiring will tell
you they have about a 50% average on
terms of being right. That means half
the hires don't work out. That means
half the time you're going to need to
fire the person. So it is it's such an
important skill to get good at
particularly when you're going through a
lot of change. And the last one is
humans are messy and it's very
emotional. And when you're a leader,
particularly if you have any kind of
anagram too or just if you like to make
people happy and you want to be liked,
it can be so hard to lead teams because
um you get tangled in the people, right?
Firing people is a painful experience.
reorganizing things, layering people,
all these things are emotionally painful
for the people and they're emotionally
painful for you as manager. But my
mantra that almost always leads in a in
the best direction is serve the
business, not the people. Meaning,
everyone is better off if this company
is wildly successful. Everyone looks
smart and, you know, uh makes lots of
money or whatever if this company grows
and um does what we all dream it can. So
at the end of the day, the best
decisions, the ones that are always
going to be right are the ones that are
like, how do we make the how do we do
the right thing for this business? And
the it also helps in political
situations, right? Like someone's acting
weird or their Bob is raging all over
the the company. Like technically
everyone has the same goal. The goal is
to build the biggest business possible.
That's the answer. The answer is always
like what's the right thing for the
business? and the people stuff can fall
away when you actually focus on like
what's the right thing for the business.
A really useful tool to do that that I
learned from my manager is to think
about when you're trying to decide like
whether to fire someone or change a
project even though it's going to upset
someone is uh is to say okay if there
were no emotions involved if this person
had no negative reaction to this what
would I do
>> totally
>> and then that's the thing you should do
and then you just do it and then the
question is how do I communicate this to
them where they're least uh you know
they they're pain is is lowest
essentially
>> in the kindest way possible.
>> In the kindest way possible and because
to your point if you optimize for the
other thing of making people feel good
like it everything just falls apart like
everything they're going to suffer even
more
>> down the road.
>> Absolutely. Direct is kind. Um and it
you know it feels kind or really
honestly easy to avoid these things or
to work around them or to not but at the
end of the day it's basically just a
drag, right? the barnacle thing like it
drags on your company, on your time, on
your energy, etc.
>> Yeah. But again, very hard to do in real
life to do the thing that's hard and
makes, you know, cause someone to be sad
and and upset and frustrated and and
maybe
>> so hard and all these things are
muscles, you know, you get better at
they don't become easy. It's not like
anybody's like, "Oh, it's so I enjoy
firing people." No, but you you
recognize it faster and you are like,
"Oh my, I need to go do this." you know
and that is actually it's a practice uh
and something that you need to practice
to sort of become the kind of leader
that leads these like long enduring
companies.
>> Yeah. And this tool of thinking asking
what would I do if there were no
emotions involved and this person
wouldn't be upset. It helps you like
realize okay I see this actually doesn't
make sense to just do it the easy way
right now because it doesn't make sense.
>> Yeah. It strips away strips away the the
emotions.
>> Mhm. Something else I wanted to make
sure we spend a little time on is you
have another tidbit along these lines
which is around putting most of your
energy into high performers versus
spending all your time with people that
need help. Talk about that.
>> You know, as a leader, as a manager,
like you you're running these teams and
someone's struggling um and it's very
easy to get dragged into that and to to
sort of end up spending a huge amount of
energy on it. But high performers are
actually the future of your company. And
if you think about it and if you've
spent time on it, um those are the folks
where if you invest your time and energy
in them, you're going to get the sort of
like 10x return that people talk about
all the time in Silicon Valley. But um
what I've witnessed is that most people
have like a high performer and they just
like leave them alone. They're like that
person's doing well, so I'm just going
to let them do their thing. And what
what I do when I have a high performer,
that's like my favorite thing in the
world, is invest time and energy in them
and basically build a whole system of
working with them that is designed to
kind of draw out potential. Um, and I
would say there's there's two two things
here. One is it's really important to
realize that like our tendency is to
actually spend time on low performers
and it is not a good use of your time.
See the point about firing people. But
the other thing is that actively
investing in and developing high
performers is something that's important
to get good at as a leader because that
is how you kind of create these little
rocket ships that end up you know you'll
manage someone who's just like a project
manager and all of a sudden they're
running a whole function inside the
company eventually but it's because you
took time and energy to invest in them.
And my basic way of doing that not to
like I could go I could spend a long
time on this but I would just say is I
run experiments. I basically develop a
theory about someone. I think this
person is capable of this kind of thing.
And then piece by piece, it doesn't have
to be like a whole job or whole project.
It can just be like uh, you know, an
incremental experiment. I'm going to see
if they can do this without, you know,
with less guidance or support from me.
I'm going to give them a bigger project.
I'm going to give them something with
more visibility. I'm going to manage
them less, oversee them less, whatever.
Um, all of those are experiments to
basically test your theory and deepen
your theory in terms of like this
person's potential and their ability to
help the company. And you're basically,
for me, what I'm doing is kind of deeply
getting to know that person and then
trying to pair them with company needs.
What do we need? What where where do we
kind of like um you know, this person's
great at zebra farming. Where do we need
zebra farming? You know, so like how do
I get them working on bigger and bigger
and more and more critical things? And
to be honest, this is what people have
done for me. Like, you know, at Facebook
in particular, I've benefited from
people being like, oop, like, come help
me with this thing. they saw potential
in me and they asked me to help with
something. Um, and it unlocked a huge
amount for me. And so it's it is such a
powerful tool for getting more out of
people that might be a little bit stuck
if you leave them in this box. But if
you start to expand the box, you can see
you can really unlock people.
>> Okay. So speaking of high performers,
you've worked with uh many very high
performing founder CEOs. He worked
really closely with Zuck, with Cheryl
Sandberg, with Larry and Sergey Google,
with Brett Taylor, who I just like just
like you try to read his resume. It's
like it takes like three lines of things
he's done over the course of his career.
And so I just want to spend a little
time on what are some things you've
learned like maybe a few things you've
learned from them, that group that you
find yourself sharing with other people
most. That list is very long, but I'll
give you a couple.
The first one that I think is kind of
counterintuitive
is um so I said I worked at Facebook. I
worked on culture, which is one of those
words that doesn't really mean anything.
So I define it as sort of like the way
that the way we do things uh around
here. Um and I thought my job was to
like shape the culture. I thought it was
to like push the culture.
And the most humbling lesson I learned
is
80% of the culture of a company is
literally defined by the personality of
the founder. Like Facebook is Mark.
Google is Larry and Sergey. Like Google
when I was there felt like it felt like
a university, you know, it's where ideas
are more important in a lot of ways than
what's shipped. And it's like, you know,
there's a a campus and they basically
wanted people to live there when I was
there. You know, it was it was designed
to basically be a a two PhD students
paradise. Facebook felt like a
19-year-old hacker's dorm room when I
was there like that. And it was, you
know, shipping above all in all else.
And that it just it seeped with Mark's
DNA.
And um you know I spent ages trying to
create various changes inside the
company or trying to kind of push a
point um and Mark would say like
literally one thing in an all hands and
it was like somebody threw a boulder
into the pond. So our job as operators
or as leaders around founders is to help
articulate the culture that they're
creating and to help you know extend it.
Um, uh, my version of founder mode,
which I know you've spent some time on
on this podcast, is your job is to build
a company that would make a decision the
way the founder would when they're not
in the room, right? That is the work of
building a company around a founder, but
your job is not to shape culture. Um,
that is mostly defined by the literal
personality, strengths, and weaknesses
of the person at the top. And that's
been true of Mark and it's been true of
Brett. Um, everywhere I go, that's who
it is. You don't need a consulting firm
to tell you just go do a personality
diagnosis on your founder. Um, and the
weaknesses thing is real, you know, like
I've seen I've seen and and watched
friends like try to ship a set of values
at a company where and it just doesn't
match who the founder is. You say move
fast and break things or whatever your
version of that is and your founder
loves ambiguity and is perfectly happy
with not making decisions. All that
leads to is cultural dissonance. um you
know it leads to people being like wait
what I thought we said you know we care
about moving fast and making making
aggressive decisions and it turns out
you know so being really careful about
what you say because what people
actually feel when it comes to culture
is what you do um and how you act every
day that is you can never write anything
down and you will still have a culture
it will be created through the actions
and the decisions that you make and that
your founder makes. So that would be a
huge one. Let me spend a little more
time on this because this is so good. So
all this advice on culture um and it's
it feels so true based on everything
I've seen. So tip one there is just you
you can't really change the culture.
Maybe there's like a little bit on the
edges you can adjust. It will come down
and trickle down from the the founder
CEO probably mostly but just the
founders in general.
>> Then CEO founder CEO is probably the
single biggest like
>> co-founder is like
>> it depends a lot on the company. Like I
think I think Stripe, you know, is
probably very much like Patrick and
John, you know, but it's not every
co-founder that has that level of power
influence.
>> Awesome. And then the the way you
describe culture, I think it's the way
Seth Goden talks about it, too, who's
also been on the podcast. How cool is
that? He uh he said culture is and what
you said. Um culture is the way we do
things around here.
>> Yeah.
>> That's that that's what culture is is
how we is just like that's how people
describe your culture is the way we do
things around here.
>> Yeah. I um you know I like ran culture
whatever the hell that means at Facebook
for a hot second. I literally haven't
done a values exercise since and it
sounds crazy right because like in
theory I like know how to do this stuff.
I don't really know how to do this
stuff. But for me the point is process
and systems and how do we make decisions
like that's where culture actually
lives. It is what you do. It's how you
hire. It's how you fire. It's who you
don't hire. It's all of those decisions.
That is culture. So whenever I'm working
with a company or building a company,
that's what I'm focused on, not on like
what's the shiny word that we're putting
on the wall. You know what I mean?
>> Yeah. So the way you're describing is
it's as you said, it's it's what you do.
It's not what you say.
>> Yeah.
>> Awesome. Okay. Uh keep going.
>> Okay.
Okay. I'll give you two more that are
helpful. Um the this one is marked with
Zuckerberg classic but he has this like
very strong feeling that uh people don't
escalate enough and he was like very
adamant about it at Facebook and he
brought it to CZI too where he was like
escalation is a tool and he's like
people get stuck you know they get stuck
with two people with equal power trying
to solve a problem you can spend so much
time bashing heads going back and forth
and actually what you just need to do is
go up right you need to The problem is
that we think of escalation as like I'm
A and B and I are disagreeing and so I'm
going to go up to C and tell on B,
right? Like I'm going to go tattled to
the teacher. That is not what escalation
is. What escalation is is we we
disagree. Neither one of us has enough
power to make this decision. Let's go to
someone who does. My my boss, my boss's
boss, whoever it is. As soon as you are
stuck, escalate. Go together. Go make
your case to whoever it is. Go together
up. That is unlocking, right? It's
saving you a whole bunch of time. And
it's something that I've found as I've
worked with companies and leaders in
glue club. Like it's not a muscle that's
very comfortable for people, but it's
it's so smart. And you know, Mark has a
lot of these, but like that one I really
took away because again, I think so many
people think of escalation as bad, like
a failure, like I failed, so I had to
escalate. No, it's a tool. It's what
management is for. Like they're there to
unblock you. Let them unblock you. stop
like arguing over something you can't
decide
>> and they'll be so happy knowing you did
not waste a week debating this and then
just arguing and just looking at data
it's like okay I can just tell you
exactly what we should do let's go do
that
>> exactly you lack context or you lack
power and then the last one actually is
from Cheryl Sandberg who um
I learned an enormous amount from huge
was like going to business school
without going to business school working
with her but um
uh I say it a lot right now so I'm going
to say it on your podcast So maybe some
people will hear me.
Um,
growing more than 100% every year is a
bad idea. 100 The happiest growth rate
is 50%.
100% is manageable. Anything more than
doubling and you are signing yourself up
for a world of pain. And I have seen
this over and over and over again. I had
to scream way louder about it 5 years
ago than I do now because we've been
through collectively a lot of pain and a
lot of layoffs and you know obviously
this the combination of like 2021 and
then AI has led us to sort of talk about
unit economics and um scaling with tools
not people but I still see companies and
I'm still talking to founders that are
like yeah we're going to you know we're
50 people we're going to be 150 people
next year and I'm like could you
possibly do that with 100 people, you
know, but here's what basically happens
if you grow it more than 100%. Which is
you're growing too fast to ddup all the
issues. So like you somebody posts this
role, it actually turns out that that
role is also being hired for on this
other team. So you're hiring two people
who more or less have the same job
description and are assigned to the same
number or the same problem, but nobody
talked to each other. And those two
people both show up and they're like, I
am doing this. And the person's like,
wait, I thought I was doing that anyway.
So then you've got all this conf and
think about all the time and all the
energy and all the money that goes into
dduping that. If you slow down if you
hire for quality and for real need
versus sort of the panic hiring,
whatever your sales model spits out or
whatever, um you'll actually find
leverage. You find, oh, I didn't need
that person or I didn't need this whole
team or I didn't need this whole
function or I can wait for that. Um so
slow down. And again, these are all just
guidelines in terms of like the 50% is
happy and 100% is manageable. But like
having seen enough of this, I can tell
you like these are good rules and you
should pay attention to them. And
sometimes you're like, I have to double
or I have to more than double or I have
to triple or whatever. I'm like, okay,
just ask a whole lot of questions as you
open roles. Ask a whole lot of questions
as you hire because you will find
duplication. You will find chaos coming
in the front door. More people does not
actually make you faster. Do you know
what I mean? We think it does. It does
not. It makes it harder. It makes it
harder to get work done. It makes it
slower. So, you should be scared of
adding people, not like, "Oh, this is
the answer to all my problems."
>> Amazing. And just to be clear, you're
talking about the growth of the the
company. Um, so doubling uh in a year,
bad idea. Like, it it's possible, but
you're saying it's going to be very hard
and painful and and probably a bad a
really bad idea.
>> Yeah. More than doubling head.
>> Head count. Yeah.
>> Exactly.
>> Please feel free to do whatever you want
with your business.
>> Just advice. Uh, I just, this is top of
mind because I just had the interview
with Matt McInness, but so much of what
he talked about is is this resonates
with what you're talking about. He
talked a lot about underresourcing your
team.
>> Totally.
>> Leads to much better outcomes because
people don't work on the lower priority
stuff. They focus on only high priority
stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and the other is this idea of
escalating. He talked a lot about that.
Just like escalation is good. Tell me
when there's something I can help with,
please. I'm here waiting constantly to
help.
>> Yeah. 100%. Yeah.
>> Amazing. So maybe for a final question,
uh, one of your former colleagues, Eric
Antinau, who's just like this epic dude
that few people know about that I've
chatted with over the last few months
because he knows so many people that
come on this podcast. He's a former
Facebook person now at OpenAI.
>> He asked him what I should ask you
about. And he told me something really
insightful about you. He said that you
had this really massive growth spurt at
Facebook which you shared and talked
about and then after you're leaving you
had this like huge ambition to become
COO CEO become this huge big deal boss
person just like take over the world and
then he noticed your ambitions
significantly pivot to kind of working
on community building and helping people
with their careers and you turned down
really big sea level role opportunities
and the way he described it is you you
were a dog that once that you're a cat.
And the other metaphor you use is you
change from AC current to DC current,
which I don't know exactly what that
means, but um so does this resonate? And
if so, just what what happened there?
Eric is actually better at metaphors
than I am. Uh and I regularly rip his
metaphors, but yes, Eric Eric Anton, the
least well-known but most brilliant
person in my life. Um,
yeah. So,
somebody I I gave a talk at a company
recently and somebody asked the
question, "What's something you've
changed your mind about?" And I was
like, "Woof." Um, but I actually talked
about this because so I h I'm my brain
is like developing this model that is
not done yet, but it's basically this
idea that like everybody has sort of a
proving phase to their career where
you're like proving to yourself and
probably to your parents and some other
people, you know, that you're like good
at stuff. You're like, I'm I'm going to
I'm going to prove, you know, and and
it's an important phase because you're
you need to learn, you know, all the
stuff we talked about. You need to learn
what you're good at. You need to learn
that you are good at things and that
people should hire you for things. And
what are those things? Um, but part of
that phase is also kind of like doing
what you think matters, like what you
think you should do. You know, family
programming or career books tell you
this is what you should do, titles and
and all that stuff. And then I think
everybody has a moment and I think this
moment varies wildly in terms of when it
hits people where you hit some sort of
wall or I don't know what it is, speed
bump something. And the world forces you
to say, "Okay, I've proven myself and
I'm good at this thing. What do I want
to do with it?" you know, and for me,
like I spent, you know, 10 or 15 years
proving to myself and to others that I
was really good um at this thing, you
know, basically working with brilliant
founders to help bring their vision to
life. That's what you should hire me to
do, right? That's what I was known for.
And it turned out that that wasn't what
I loved doing anymore. And it was
really, really hard to walk away from
because there was a lot of shoods. It
was like, "You should take this job with
this fancy title. People are going to
think you're so cool." And you know, you
get to like I call it a LinkedIn crush
where you're like really excited to post
the job on LinkedIn, but you're deeply
unexited about doing the job. Um, so you
have all these LinkedIn crushes and
you're like, um, and I sort of vividly
remember this one job that I turned down
where I had to go for many walks. And
what I was repeating over and over again
to myself was, "What does this get you
that you don't already have?"
What does this get you that you don't
already have?
And
I think for me it was this realization
that these things that fed me early in
my career just didn't feed me anymore.
That I didn't get joy and excitement out
of, you know, doing these jobs anymore.
Um, and I wasn't scared. Uh so it led me
to actually on a very long windy
journey, a founder journey, even though
I have trouble with that title, just
like the influencer title. Um to figure
out what I wanted to build. And you
know, what I would have told you I
wanted to build three years ago is
actually not what I'm doing today. Um,
but through a lot of really fun
experiments and a journey that never
ends, what I've discovered is that what
I love doing is building safe spaces for
leaders to learn and grow. Um, but also
to find sanity and connection in a world
that's kind of insane, whether it's, you
know, working in a startup or or some
other kind of insanity. Um, but that
that feed me and that there's nothing I
love more than that and I could not have
told you that 3 years ago. But it was to
Eric's point, it really took a lot of
work to switch currents or switch myself
from a dog to a cat or whatever his
metaphor is. Um, and I think it's, you
know, it's the work of it's ongoing
work. Um, but it it it's that thing of
like what do I want versus what do I
think people expect of me?
>> There's so much depth there. This could
be another entire podcast conversation
talking through this journey. But I'm
going to close with a note from your uh
partner Sarah. She told me that she has
this sticker on her notebook with three
pieces of advice that you gave her when
she started at OpenAI. Get to know your
customer. They have the answer. be
patient because everything is going to
change and just keep trying.
So, just as a final question, is there
anything along those lines that you
think might be helpful for people to
hear or is there anything else you want
to share or leave listeners with?
>> Part of what I think is so important to
realize
inside of scaling and changing companies
and you know the world is like some
things will always be true. And part of
what I was saying to Sarah in the like
get to know the customer, they have the
answer is like whatever is
going on around you and whatever walls
and ceiling are being rearranged, you
know, this week, the customer is never
going to change. That's a thing that
will never change. And I think finding
those like immovable objects,
those compasses in the face of a storm,
you know, which being inside of a
scaling company and a startup like feels
like a tornado, you know. Um, and I
think OpenAI is extra special on that
front. Um, you have to find these
guiding lights that get you through that
storm. And I think, um, it's sort of the
same thing as like serve the business,
not the people. Like what are the things
that will always be true? We are here to
do this. We are here to do, you know, we
are here to serve the customer. And then
the other piece of the the sort of like
the three things that she wrote down is
like
I think that we as humans we seek
stability, you know, like our brains
like would like things to stop changing.
We would like things to stay the same.
And that is just not a reality inside of
companies that are growing and changing
as fast as OpenAI or you know a lot of
the companies today that are being
built.
So actually, you need to start to expect
instability. You need to start to like
just assume things are going to change.
Assume you're going to have a new boss
in six months, right? I talk about this
a lot when I talk to folks at OpenAI.
Like you need to stop expecting that
anything's going to be the same in 6
months or a year. Like you will have a
different job. You will have a different
boss. How do you prepare for that? Do
you know what I mean? How do you almost
see the instability as stability?
Because it's the only thing that is
definitely going to be true. And part of
that is to just keep going. You know
what I mean? To just find these these
lights and these compasses or whatever
metaphor sticks with you and focus on
those because whatever is happening
around you, like you just got to keep
moving forward and keep learning as much
as you can because that's the real
opportunity. Like whatever happens to
the company, however successful it is,
like all that you take away from it, I
always say all that you take away from
it is people that like working with you
and want to work with you again and what
you learned. That's it. You might
hopefully take a bunch of money, but you
might not. So, like people and what you
learned. That's it. Focus on that.
>> It's all about the friends you made
along the way. That old line is true.
Oh, man. Molly, I feel like uh we've
gone for so long and uh we've just
scratched the surface. Uh I'd love to
have you back to go deeper on a lot of
this stuff. I'm going to skip the
lightning round because we've gone long
and I want to keep people from having to
listen to more. So, I'm just going to
end with what are um what should people
know about what you're working on? Where
can people go find you online? And how
can listeners be useful to you?
>> You can find me on LinkedIn and you can
find me on Substack. I have a Substack
called lessons that I'm slowly trying to
turn into a community where we can talk
about things, the real stuff. Um and you
can find me at Glue Club, uh which if
you're a leader inside of one of these
crazy companies that's changing all the
time, we we can be a great home for you.
>> What's the URL there, just for folks to
check out? glue club.com.
>> Glue Glue E.
>> Glue E.
>> Clu B.com. Great.
>> Yeah, exactly.
And uh in terms of people, what people
can do to be useful to me, I love uh
helping people, helping leaders with
problems. Like I um I really get a lot
of energy out of unsticking people and
and helping people feel supported and
seen and helping them grow. Um, I do
that through Glue Club. So, if you're a
leader that feels like you want uh some
sanity and some support in the face of
whatever tornado you're in, that's a
great place to come. But the the same is
true of Substack. So, if Blue Club isn't
for you, like come on over to Substack.
I've opened up a bunch of channels to
just like talk about stuff, listen to
people's problems, answer questions
because I love helping people, and I
think it's a complicated moment right
now to be a leader and to figure out um
which way is up. So, come on over.
>> Amazing. Molly, thank you so much for
being here.
>> Thank you, Lenny. This was really fun.
>> Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.